The demand for a new edition of The Fair Haven gives me an
opportunity of saying a few words about the genesis of what, though
not one of the most popular of Samuel Butler's books, is certainly
one of the most characteristic.  Few of his works, indeed, show more
strikingly his brilliant powers as a controversialist and his
implacable determination to get at the truth of whatever engaged his
attention.

To find the germ of The Fair Haven we should probably have to go back
to the year 1858, when Butler, after taking his degree at Cambridge,
was preparing himself for holy orders by acting as a kind of lay
curate in a London parish.  Butler never took things for granted, and
he felt it to be his duty to examine independently a good many points
of Christian dogma which most candidates for ordination accept as
matters of course.  The result of his investigations was that he
eventually declined to take orders at all.  One of the stones upon
which he then stumbled was the efficacy of infant baptism, and I have
no doubt that another was the miraculous element of Christianity,
which, it will be remembered, was the cause of grievous searchings of
heart to Ernest Pontifex in Butler's semi-autobiographical novel, The
Way of All Flesh.  While Butler was in New Zealand (1859-64) he had
leisure for prosecuting his Biblical studies, the result of which he
published in 1865, after his return to England, in an anonymous
pamphlet entitled "The Evidence for the Resurrection of Jesus Christ
as given by the Four Evangelists critically examined."  This pamphlet
passed unnoticed; probably only a few copies were printed and it is
now extremely rare.  After the publication of Erewhon in 1872, Butler
returned once more to theology, and made his anonymous pamphlet the
basis of the far more elaborate Fair Haven, which was originally
published as the posthumous work of a certain John Pickard Owen,
preceded by a memoir of the deceased author by his supposed brother,
William Bickersteth Owen.  It is possible that the memoir was the
fruit of a suggestion made by Miss Savage, an able and witty woman
with whom Butler corresponded at the time.  Miss Savage was so much
impressed by the narrative power displayed in Erewhon that she urged
Butler to write a novel, and we shall probably not be far wrong in
regarding the biography of John Pickard Owen as Butler's trial trip
in the art of fiction--a prelude to The Way of All Flesh, which he
began in 1873.

It has often been supposed that the elaborate paraphernalia of
mystification which Butler used in The Fair Haven was deliberately
designed in order to hoax the public.  I do not believe that this was
the case.  Butler, I feel convinced, provided an ironical framework
for his arguments merely that he might render them more effective
than they had been when plainly stated in the pamphlet of 1865.  He
fully expected his readers to comprehend his irony, and he
anticipated that some at any rate of them would keenly resent it.
Writing to Miss Savage in March, 1873 (shortly before the publication
of the book), he said:  "I should hope that attacks on The Fair Haven
will give me an opportunity of excusing myself, and if so I shall
endeavour that the excuse may be worse than the fault it is intended
to excuse."  A few days later he referred to the difficulties that he
had encountered in getting the book accepted by a publisher:  " ---
were frightened and even considered the scheme of the book
unjustifiable.  --- urged me, as politely as he could, not to do it,
and evidently thinks I shall get myself into disgrace even among
freethinkers.  It's all nonsense.  I dare say I shall get into a row-
-at least I hope I shall."  Evidently there is here no anticipation
of The Fair Haven being misunderstood.  Misunderstood, however, it
was, not only by reviewers, some of whom greeted it solemnly as a
defence of orthodoxy, but by divines of high standing, such as the
late Canon Ainger, who sent it to a friend whom he wished to convert.
This was more than Butler could resist, and he hastened to issue a
second edition bearing his name and accompanied by a preface in which
the deceived elect were held up to ridicule.

Butler used to maintain that The Fair Haven did his reputation no
harm.  Writing in 1901, he said:

"The Fair Haven got me into no social disgrace that I have ever been
able to discover.  I might attack Christianity as much as I chose and
nobody cared one straw; but when I attacked Darwin it was a different
matter.  For many years Evolution, Old and New, and Unconscious
Memory made a shipwreck of my literary prospects.  I am only now
beginning to emerge from the literary and social injury which those
two perfectly righteous books inflicted on me.  I dare say they
abound with small faults of taste, but I rejoice in having written
both of them."

Very likely Butler was right as to the social side of the question,
but I am convinced that The Fair Haven did him grave harm in the
literary world.  Reviewers fought shy of him for the rest of his
life.  They had been taken in once, and they took very good care that
they should not be taken in again.  The word went forth that Butler
was not to be taken seriously, whatever he wrote, and the results of
the decree were apparent in the conspiracy of silence that greeted
not only his books on evolution, but his Homeric works, his writings
on art, and his edition of Shakespeare's sonnets.  Now that he has
passed beyond controversies and mystifications, and now that his
other works are appreciated at their true value, it is not too much
to hope that tardy justice will be accorded also to The Fair Haven.
It is true that the subject is no longer the burning question that it
was forty years ago.  In the early seventies theological polemics
were fashionable.  Books like Seeley's Ecce Homo and Matthew Arnold's
Literature and Dogma were eagerly devoured by readers of all classes.
Nowadays we take but a languid interest in the problems that
disturbed our grandfathers, and most of us have settled down into
what Disraeli described as the religion of all sensible men, which no
sensible man ever talks about.  There is, however, in The Fair Haven
a good deal more than theological controversy, and our Laodicean age
will appreciate Butler's humour and irony if it cares little for his
polemics.  The Fair Haven scandalised a good many people when it
first appeared, but I am not afraid of its scandalising anybody now.
I should be sorry, nevertheless, if it gave any reader a false
impression of Butler's Christianity, and I think I cannot do better
than conclude with a passage from one of his essays which represents
his attitude to religion perhaps more faithfully than anything in The
Fair Haven:  "What, after all, is the essence of Christianity?  What
is the kernel of the nut?  Surely common sense and cheerfulness, with
unflinching opposition to the charlatanisms and Pharisaisms of a
man's own times.  The essence of Christianity lies neither in dogma,
nor yet in abnormally holy life, but in faith in an unseen world, in
doing one's duty, in speaking the truth, in finding the true life
rather in others than in oneself, and in the certain hope that he who
loses his life on these behalfs finds more than he has lost.  What
can Agnosticism do against such Christianity as this?  I should be
shocked if anything I had ever written or shall ever write should
seem to make light of these things."

R. A. STREATFEILD.
August, 1913.