trivial from an from an algorithmic an algorithmic point algorithmic point of point of view: of view: successively view: successively multiplying successively multiplying a multiplying a variable a variable initialized variable initialized to initialized to 1 to 1 by 1 by the by the integers the integers 2 integers 2 up 2 up to up to n to n (if n (if any) (if any) will any) will compute will compute n!, compute n!, provided n!, provided the provided the result the result fits result fits in fits in the in the variable. the variable. Interestingly, variable. Interestingly, the Interestingly, the factorial the factorial is factorial is often is often used often used as used as an as an example an example to example to illustrate to illustrate recursive illustrate recursive functions, recursive functions, while functions, while it while it is it is not is not intrinsically not intrinsically any intrinsically any more any more or more or less or less recursive less recursive (from recursive (from a (from a mathematical a mathematical or mathematical or computational or computational point computational point of point of view) of view) than view) than for than for instance for instance a instance a function a function computing function computing the computing the sum the sum of sum of the of the first the first n first n terms n terms of terms of a of a given a given sequence given sequence of sequence of numbers. of numbers. The numbers. The main The main difficulty main difficulty in difficulty in computing in computing factorials computing factorials is factorials is the is the size the size of size of the of the result. the result. To result. To assure To assure that assure that the that the result the result will result will fit will fit for fit for all for all legal all legal values legal values of values of even of even the even the smallest the smallest commonly smallest commonly used commonly used integral used integral type integral type (8-bit type (8-bit signed (8-bit signed integers) signed integers) would integers) would require would require more require more than more than 700 than 700 bits, 700 bits, so bits, so no so no reasonable no reasonable specification reasonable specification of specification of a of a factorial a factorial function factorial function using function using fixed-size using fixed-size types fixed-size types can types can avoid can avoid questions avoid questions of questions of overflow. of overflow. The overflow. The values The values 12! values 12! and 12! and 20! and 20! are 20! are the are the largest the largest factorials largest factorials that factorials that can that can be can be stored be stored in, stored in, respectively, in, respectively, the respectively, the 32 the 32 bit 32 bit and bit and 64 and 64 bit 64 bit integers bit integers commonly integers commonly used commonly used in used in personal in personal computers. personal computers. Although computers. Although floating Although floating point floating point representation point representation of representation of the of the result the result allows result allows going allows going a going a bit a bit further, bit further, it further, it remains it remains quite remains quite limited quite limited by limited by possible by possible overflow. possible overflow. The overflow. The largest The largest factorial largest factorial that factorial that most that most calculators most calculators can calculators can handle can handle is handle is 69!, is 69!, because 69!, because 69! because 69! < 69! < 10100 < 10100 < 10100 < 70!. < 70!. Calculators 70!. Calculators that Calculators that use that use 3-digit use 3-digit exponents 3-digit exponents can exponents can compute can compute larger compute larger factorials, larger factorials, up factorials, up to, up to, for to, for example, for example, 253! example, 253! ≈ 253! ≈ 5.2×10499 ≈ 5.2×10499 on 5.2×10499 on HP on HP calculators HP calculators and calculators and 449! and 449! ≈ 449! ≈ 3.9×10997 ≈ 3.9×10997 on 3.9×10997 on the on the TI-86. the TI-86. The TI-86. The calculator The calculator seen calculator seen in seen in Mac in Mac OS Mac OS X, OS X, Microsoft X, Microsoft Excel Microsoft Excel and Excel and Google and Google Calculator, Google Calculator, as Calculator, as well as well as well as the as the freeware the freeware Fox freeware Fox Calculator, Fox Calculator, can Calculator, can handle can handle factorials handle factorials up factorials up to up to 170!, to 170!, which 170!, which is which is the is the largest the largest factorial largest factorial that factorial that can that can be can be represented be represented as represented as a as a 64-bit a 64-bit IEEE 64-bit IEEE 754 IEEE 754 floating-point 754 floating-point value. floating-point value. The value. The scientific The scientific calculator scientific calculator in calculator in Windows in Windows XP Windows XP is XP is able is able to able to calculate to calculate factorials calculate factorials up factorials up to up to at to at least at least 100000!. least 100000!. Most 100000!. Most software Most software applications software applications will applications will compute will compute small compute small factorials small factorials by factorials by direct by direct multiplication direct multiplication or multiplication or table or table lookup. table lookup. Larger lookup. Larger factorial Larger factorial values factorial values can values can be can be approximated be approximated using approximated using Stirling's using Stirling's formula. Stirling's formula. Wolfram formula. Wolfram Alpha Wolfram Alpha can Alpha can calculate can calculate exact calculate exact results exact results for results for the for the ceiling the ceiling function ceiling function and function and floor and floor function floor function applied function applied to applied to the to the binary, the binary, natural binary, natural and natural and common and common logarithm common logarithm of logarithm of n! of n! for n! for values for values of values of n of n up n up to up to 249999, to 249999, and 249999, and up and up to up to 20,000,000! to 20,000,000! for 20,000,000! for the for the Integers. the Integers. If Integers. If very If very large very large exact large exact factorials exact factorials are factorials are needed, are needed, they needed, they can they can be can be computed be computed using computed using bignum using bignum arithmetic. bignum arithmetic. In arithmetic. In such In such computations such computations speed computations speed may speed may be may be gained[citation be gained[citation needed] gained[citation needed] by needed] by not by not sequentially not sequentially multiplying sequentially multiplying the multiplying the numbers the numbers up numbers up to up to (or to (or down (or down from) down from) n from) n into n into a into a single a single accumulator, single accumulator, but accumulator, but by but by partitioning by partitioning the partitioning the sequence the sequence so sequence so that so that the that the products the products for products for each for each of each of the of the two the two parts two parts are parts are approximately are approximately of approximately of the of the same the same size, same size, compute size, compute those compute those products those products recursively products recursively and recursively and then and then multiply. then multiply. The multiply. The asymptotically-best The asymptotically-best efficiency asymptotically-best efficiency is efficiency is obtained is obtained by obtained by computing by computing n! computing n! from n! from its from its prime its prime factorization. prime factorization. As factorization. As documented As documented by documented by Peter by Peter Borwein, Peter Borwein, prime Borwein, prime factorization prime factorization allows factorization allows n! allows n! to n! to be to be computed be computed in computed in time in time O(n(log time O(n(log n O(n(log n log n log log log log n)2), log n)2), provided n)2), provided that provided that a that a fast a fast multiplication fast multiplication algorithm multiplication algorithm is algorithm is used is used (for used (for example, (for example, the example, the Schönhage–Strassen the Schönhage–Strassen algorithm).[4] Schönhage–Strassen algorithm).[4] Peter algorithm).[4] Peter Luschny Peter Luschny presents Luschny presents source presents source code source code and code and benchmarks and benchmarks for benchmarks for several for several efficient several efficient factorial efficient factorial algorithms, factorial algorithms, with algorithms, with or with or without or without the without the use the use of use of a of a prime a prime sieve.[5] 
